# TsunamiDetection
For Microsoft codefundo++

Tsunami, a natural event caused by various natural phenomena, is a very important aspect for many seas and oceans, which are located in faulty zones. Tsunamis are shallow-water waves, with long periods and wavelengths. In this model, we plan on achieving two major aims. The first is the “Neural Network based estimation which may create tsunamis various Tsunami prone regions”, and the second is “Neural Network based estimation of the wave altitude at the coast of the tsunami, which occurred in the past or might occur in the future in regard to the predicted magnitude”. Artificial Neural Network is a system simulating the human brain learning and thinking behavior by experiencing some received data. It is widely used and is a good alternative for problems which are difficult to be solved by conventional mathematical methods.

We plan to achieve early prediction of the Tsunami wave altitudes near shoreline as well as it’s intensity (magnitude). It may be noted that, we plan to simulate conditions of blow up under different types of shall water waves such as Peakons (peaked Solitons) or periodic Peakons. These waves possess complex functional properties. In fact some of the equations governing these type of waves, proposed by Benjamin, Strauss, Constantin, Saha  et. al. are not even integrable. The functions are defined in a distributional sense. Therefore, it is reasonable to estimate the wave altitude under conditions of blow up. The challenge in the project is to be able to use MAchine Learning to translate some of the well known analytical results in the field. This is done in accordance with the data sources which are procured from suitable resources. The input being the parameters that cause Tsunami, in particular and generation of Peakons, in general.  The output is the prediction of possibility as well as magnitude of Tsunami.  In a nutshell, this is an event prediction problem.
